README.md, before:

# TLA+ Microwave Simulator

This is a Spring Boot + Vaadin application that simulates a microwave oven with TLA+ verification. The application demonstrates state machine behavior and safety properties.

## Features

- Microwave state simulation with door, radiation, and timer
- TLA+ verification output for each state transition
- Real-time UI updates
- Safety property enforcement
- Configurable simulation parameters

## Requirements

- Java 17 or higher
- Maven 3.6 or higher

## Running the Application

1. Clone the repo

2. Ensure TLC is available:
   - If you installed `tlc` on your local PATH, nothing else is needed.
   - Otherwise, we bundle `tla2tools.jar` via Maven.  
     Edit `src/main/resources/application.properties` so that
     `tlc.cmd` points to your `java` executable and
     `tlc.cmd.args` lists `-jar,/path/to/tla2tools.jar`.

3. `mvn spring-boot:run`

4. Ensure everything is installed via
`java --version`
`mvn --version`
`tlc --version`

5. see the application at [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080)

6. In the UI click "Verify with TLC" after running a cooking cycle.

## State Machine Properties

### State Variables
- Door: OPEN/CLOSED
- Radiation: ON/OFF
- Time Remaining: 0-60 seconds

### Actions
- Increment Time (+3s)
- Start
- Cancel
- Open/Close Door
- Tick (automatic)

### Safety Properties
- Door Safety: Radiation cannot be ON when door is OPEN
- Start Safety: Can only start when door is CLOSED and time > 0
- Open Door Safety: Radiation turns OFF when door opens

## TLA+ Verification

The application logs each state transition in TLA+ format, showing:
- Action performed
- Pre-state
- Post-state
- Safety property verification

## Configuration

The application can be configured through application.properties:
- `microwave.max-time`: Maximum cooking time (default: 60)
- `microwave.tick-interval`: Tick interval in milliseconds (default: 1000)

Commit message:

auto-install tlc on machine to run the tlc checker, verify With TLC button failing due to path

README.md, after:

# TLA+ Microwave Simulator

This is a Spring Boot + Vaadin application that simulates a microwave oven with TLA+ verification. The application demonstrates state machine behavior and safety properties.

## Features

- Microwave state simulation with door, radiation, and timer
- TLA+ verification output for each state transition
- Real-time UI updates
- Safety property enforcement
- Configurable simulation parameters

## Requirements

- Java 17 or higher
- Maven 3.6 or higher

## Running the Application

1. Clone the repo

2. Download TLA+ tools:
   ```bash
   ./download-tla.sh
   ```

3. Build the project:
   ```bash
   mvn clean install
   ```

4. Run the application:
   ```bash
   mvn spring-boot:run
   ```

5. See the application at [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080)

6. In the UI click "Verify with TLC" after running a cooking cycle.

Note: The TLA+ tools are included in the project as a local JAR file. No additional installation is required.

## State Machine Properties

### State Variables
- Door: OPEN/CLOSED
- Radiation: ON/OFF
- Time Remaining: 0-60 seconds

### Actions
- Increment Time (+3s)
- Start
- Cancel
- Open/Close Door
- Tick (automatic)

### Safety Properties
- Door Safety: Radiation cannot be ON when door is OPEN
- Start Safety: Can only start when door is CLOSED and time > 0
- Open Door Safety: Radiation turns OFF when door opens

## TLA+ Verification

The application logs each state transition in TLA+ format, showing:
- Action performed
- Pre-state
- Post-state
- Safety property verification

## Configuration

The application can be configured through application.properties:
- `microwave.max-time`: Maximum cooking time (default: 60)
- `microwave.tick-interval`: Tick interval in milliseconds (default: 1000)
